# programs-description

> A description of the uses, purposes, and workings of each Linux program.

evolution personal information management software Evolution provides integrated mail, address book and calendaring functionality to users of the GNOME desktop. Its user interface and feature set are similar to Microsoft Outlook.
blueberry -  is a front-end for Gnome-bluetooth-3.14, and it shows a systray icon in your panel and doesn’t annoy you if you don’t have a Bluetooth adapter. It works on any Desktop environment, including MATE, Cinnamon, GNOME, XFCE, and Unity. And ofcourse, it should work on any distribution as long as gnome-bluetooth 3.14 is installed.
pxgsettings -  is "A helper binary to query gsettings". Mostly containts things like mostly it would be window positions, label names, color choices, etc.
gsettings - gsettings offers a simple commandline interface to GSettings.It lets you get, set or monitor an individual key for changes. The SCHEMA and KEY arguments are required for most commands to specify the schema id and the name of the key to operate on. The schema id may optionally have a :PATH suffix. Specifying the path is only needed if the schema does not have a fixed path.
obexd - (Object Exchange) The Obexd package contains D-Bus services providing OBEX client and server functionality. OBEX is communication protocol to facilitate the exchange of the binary object between the devices and is similar in design to HTTP. OBEX is supported by modern Bluetooth devices plus various other mobile devices via either Bluetooth or Infrared interfaces. In the new 5.10 release is a new "obexctl" program by Intel. This was the software that is independent as obexd, but this has been integrated into BlueZ from BlueZ 5.0. . BlueZ is the official Linux Bluetooth protocol stack. It is an Open Source project distributed under GNU General Public License (GPL).
nm-applet - (network manager applet) The nm-applet tool is an overlay user interface that is available in the top-right corner of your desktop menu. Using the nm-applet, you can : see existing connections, add, edit and remove them at will. network-manager-applet for a system tray applet ( nm-applet ). Note: You must ensure that no other service that wants to configure the network is running; in fact, multiple networking services will conflict. You can find a list of the currently running services with systemctl --type=service and then stop them.
wnck-applet -  "WNCK" (pronounced "wink") stands for, it means W indow N etwork C onstruction K it. Usually, one program handles one applet or type of applet at a time. wnck-applet is different. The "Show Desktop" button, the Window List, the Window Menu (you may not recognize this one), and the Workspace Switcher. Well, at one time in ye olden days when things were not better, people didn't use to have oodles of main system RAM that they could waste on inefficient programs, like we can today. :wink: So actually, all four of the above applets use some (hacky) measures to ensure that they are all managed by one process; this measure saves some RAM, since you don't need several copies of basically the same code loaded into RAM at once. (Did you notice that there isn't a window-list-applet, workspace-switcher-applet, etc. on your process list? That's why.) wnck-applet uses libwnck (the library). It is a convenient group of functions which help programmers write applications which operate on windows. Window lists, workspace switchers, even some window managers make use of the library.
clock-applet - draws the clock in the panel. 
mintmenu - An advanced menu used by linux mint. MintMenu supports filtering, favorites, easy-uninstallation, autosession, and many other features.
mintupdate -
mintinstall -
mintdisk -
mintdesktop -
mintnanny -
mintbackup -
mintstick -
mintwelcome -
mintupload -
gvfs - (GNOME virtual file system) gvfs is a userspace virtual filesystem where mounts run as separateprocesses which you talk to via D-Bus. It also contains a gio modulethat seamlessly adds gvfs support to all applications using the gioAPI. It also supports exposing the gvfs mounts to non-gio applicationsusing fuse.
caja - Caja is the default file manager for the MATE Desktop Environment. It makes it easy to manage, manipulate, and customize files and directories. Caja can access local and remote filesystems such as SSH, FTP, and WebDav (HTTP/HTTPS).
marco - is a small window manager, using GTK+ to do everything. It is developed mainly for the MATE Desktop. This package contains the marco window manager itself. Marco is a software compositor.
at-spi2 - is a protocol over DBus, toolkit widgets use it to provide their content to screen readers such as Orca. Assistive technology. the 'assistive technology' stuff like at-spi2-registryd and at-spi-core cannot be removed properly, despite being disabled, without pulling out a whole load of programs. The best way i've found is to stop it from running is to add .old to the end of the executables. Here's an example: sudo mv /usr/lib/at-spi2-core/at-spi2-registryd /usr/lib/at-spi2-core/at-spi2-registryd.old
orca - is a free, open source, flexible, and extensible screen reader that provides access to the graphical desktop via speech and refreshable braille.
onboard - An on screen keyboards allow an individual to completely control the computer using only a mouse. There are several on screen keyboards available for Linux. Ubuntu Linux comes with an on screen keyboard called onboard, which can be used to not only control the system, but also login. In addition to offering standard onscreen keyboard functions, onboard also allows you to save pre-formatted messages and print them quickly and easily. Using this, you could store a command you frequently use, a web address, or perhaps a message to a friend.
redmond - Redmond Linux is a Linux distribution that caters to the non-technical end user. Different editions of Redmond Linux will cater to different types of casual users. The first edition, Redmond Linux Personal, is specially built to make computing as simple as possible.
cupertino - An iOS-style full-screen modal route that opens when the child is long-pressed. Used to display relevant actions for your content. An iOS-style date or date and time picker. A button typically used in a CupertinoAlertDialog. An iOS-style transition used for summoning fullscreen dialogs. An iOS-style top navigation bar.
tweak - The Gnome Tweak Tool is used in conjunction with the Gnome Shell and is there to modify its interface. In other words, it is used to modify the look and feel of your Ubuntu system.
gnome-keyring - Keyring is a software application designed to store security credentials such as usernames, passwords, and keys, together with a small amount of relevant metadata.The sensitive data is encrypted and stored in a keyring file in the user's home directory.The default keyring uses the login password for encryption, so users don't need to remember another password.
bluetooh - 
ssh-agent - 
rtkit-daemon - (RealtimeKit) is a D-Bus system service that changes the scheduling policy of user processes/threads to SCHED_RR (i.e. realtime scheduling mode) on request. It is intended to be used as a secure mechanism to allow real-time scheduling to be used by normal user processes. Overall, I would not expect it to peg out CPU usage.
pulseaudio -  is a standard audio stack used by as good as all Linux distributions. It places itself between end-user software and the kernels ALSA audio stack. It can be used for mixing, per-application volume control and network audio. It has a history of criticism for it's high CPU use and many, many bugs.
(sd-pam) - (SystemD Pluggable Authentication Modules) The child's job is to reset the PAM session on termination.
